Medics say heavy fighting between
Israeli forces and Hamas has trapped
patients and thousands of displaced
people seeking Refuge at a hospital in
Gaza City the Palestine red crescent
Society said their emergency crews at
Al's Hospital are facing blackouts and
intense shelling in the vicinity and the
un's World Health Organization expressed
alarm at the situation in alifa Hospital
medical staff there say it has run out
of water food and
electricity Israel said it had clashed
with Hamas nearby but had not fired on
the
hospital a newborn in Gaza her
grandmother says they fled alifa
Hospital following an attack walking for
hours to seek
[Music]
safety we fled the morning she was born
she and her mother didn't rest she
didn't even get
breastfed our journey it's a journey of
Torment the West Banks Health min says
dozens of babies are at risk of death in
alifa the hospital of shifa is the main
hospital in Gaza Strip it lacks oxygen
it lacks it lacks electricity it lacks
Fuel and also the Israeli occupation
power is threatening the uh medical
staff to to leave there as Israel
intensifies its operations in Northern
Gaza it says doctors patients and
thousands of displaced people who've
taken Refuge at hospitals must leave
saying Hamas militants are using the
facilities as cover Israel denies that
its forces are attacking alifa
Hospital the World Health Organization
says it's Gravely concerned about the
safety of those still inside the
hospital Ahad alandari joins me from
Oman he is the regional director for the
World Health Organization thank you so
so much for speaking to us again what
are your colleagues in Gaza telling you
about the situation at alifa hospital
today thank you very much CLA for giving
me the opportunity you know we are
getting reports from our office there in
Gaz that they have not really managed
you know to get any communication for
the last 24 hours with their teams there
in shifa hospital but according to the
reports you know there are still um
attacks of the hospital building and the
surrounding of the hospital which led
for example the the last attack last
night you know led into casualties and
deaths among those people who sheltered
themselves in that hospital as well as
damaging the ICU with one patient died
who was under ventilator and the service
is really collapsing there because of
the lack of the fuel as well as because
of the direct attacks you know of some
of the buildings there there is no clean
water uh to run the services as well as
no electric you know they are operating
on torches they are operating with no
anesthesia and they are really facing a
very bad situation there in the hospital
now the Israeli military says that
there's been a lot of
misinformation coming out of Gaza I'd
like to take a listen to what their
spokesperson um Danielle hagari said
last night about alifa Hospital Dr alari
it would be great if you could listen in
with us and I'd like to get your
thoughts on what he says in just a
moment there is no s i rep there is no
Siege on the shifa hospital the east
side of the hospital is open on elad
street for the safe pass of gazans who
wish to leave the hospital we're
speaking directly and regularly with the
hospital staff the staff of the shifa
hospital has requested that tomorrow we
will help the babies in the pediatric
department to get to a safer hospital we
will provide the assistance
needed Dr Al manari uh can can you
confirm what the IDF is saying there is
there safe passage out of alifa hospital
for those uh who wish to
leave uh there are a few points that I'd
like to reiterate and reemphasize on in
fact based on all un agencies and as
well as credible nonan agencies there is
no place save in Gaza all places in Gaza
are under direct attacks by the Israeli
forces all Healthcare facilities you
know are under attack by the forces as
well and the surrounding of these
facilities evacuating patients from the
hospital is right is like issuing a
death certificate because first of all
you know all hospitals are you know
partially functioning those hospitals
which are still functioning partially
functioning these hospitals are
suffering from you know severe shortage
of medical supplies
severe shortage of fuel with no
electricity and no clean water and in
addition to that the bed capacity in the
remaining hospitals is reaching 180% of
their normal bed capacity so there is no
place at all for even one single bed to
receive a patient number two patients in
a shifa hospital especially those under
you know ventilators and especially
children it is really like issuing
premature death certificate for them
because it is not possible to move them
from you know the machines you know
keeping them alive um the place you know
or the roads are not safe and in fact
some of those people who fleed the
hospital the civilians were under attack
so I don't know on what basis you know
Israeli forces is saying they are
communicating with the staff in the
hospital asking them to evacuate it is
unfair to evacuate T of patients from
this hospital so you're describing a
very dire humanitarian situation but
just to make clear um from what the IDF
has said that there is no Siege of alifa
hospital is that is the World Health
Organization also able to confirm that
that that people who are able in a
position to leave can actually get off
the
premises there is no way to get you know
patients or staff or even those who are
Sheltering themselves in the hospital to
leave the hospital because of the
insecurity and direct attacks of the
surrounding of the hospital and this
report in fact it is not only wh report
it is report of all un agencies
including msf including you know red
Cent Red Cross uh reports so it is it is
not just un reports or minister of Filth
official rewards okay thank you so much
for speaking with us as always that's uh
Dr Ahmed Al mandari from the World
Health Organization many thanks we
appreciate your time thank you my
pleasure we're joined by DW's Tanya
Kramer in Jerusalem from more now ton
medical staff in gaza's hospitals are
describing alifa hospital as under
bombard can you tell us more about what
is happening
there well I mean this is what we're
getting from reports from Gaza obviously
there are residents still in the area
and from the medical staff you know with
through through phone calls telling what
is going on right now there at shiffer
hospital they're saying there has been
heavy bombardment air strikes uh in the
area in the vicinity of the hospital
alifa the largest hospital in Gaza where
you said you know many residents of Gaza
had also sought they will be safe uh in
the compound of this hospital but now um
you know medical staff and the the um
directors there of the health official
saying that basically Al shifa uh
hospital is shutting down they're
starting to lose patients uh they cannot
provide the services anymore we also
hear that from other hospitals uh in the
north uh and uh wh said they're very
worried about the situation they're
grave concerns about what is going on
that they had lost contact to their
focal points at shifa hospital also
we're hearing this from Doctors Without
Borders msf they also have stuff in the
hospital uh you know calling for the
protections of those Hospitals now the
Israeli Army has said they are
confirming there's fighting going on in
the vicinity of the hospital that
they're not targeting the hospital
itself although the Army has always said
that they are um allegedly uh you know
command centers of the Armed groups
underneath the hospital that's why this
hospital is such a a focus for uh the
military but of course this situation
also means for patients or for people in
the north of Gaza with all these
hospitals being you know where there's a
lot of fighting going on that they have
no place to go to in in need if they
need of help they're describing a dire
situation indeed Anon I want to ask you
about some news coming out of Israel
Israeli media reporting progress in a
deal to free some 240 hostages believed
to be held in Gaza it's been about 5
weeks since their abduction and Little's
known about their Fates we're going to
come back to Tanya in just a moment but
first this
report they want action across Israel
thousands of protesters took to the
streets on Saturday they wared their
government to secure the quick release
of hostages abducted by Hamas on October
7th I don't think any other country in
the world would have that women children
baby civilian Innocents who are being
kept as hostages um in Gaza right now
and for 35 days not one person from the
Red Cross has been allowed to visit with
them and let us know um that they're
okay and give us a sign of life from any
of them at another much smaller
demonstration a group of Israeli
activists called for an end to the war
in
Gaza we come here to ask for ceasefire I
think this is right now the only
demonstration of Main Jewish Israelis
who are asking to stop the massive
bombarding of Gaza to stop the ongoing
transfer in the west bank and to start
finding peaceful solutions for the
situation in the past couple of weeks
using this War the government has taken
power into its own hands and disallowed
any form of protest against the
indiscriminate killing of civilians in
Gaza and against the war and working
towards a solution today we are here to
protest also against that demands for a
ceasefire have been growing from
citizens across the world and also from
world leaders on Friday French president
Emmanuel macron said there was no
justification for the civilian
casualties in Gaza and called on Israel
to stop its
bombing and day after day what we saw is
a permanent bombing of civilians in
G those remarks have not gone down well
with Israeli Prime min Benjamin
Netanyahu regarding French president
mcon I think he did good things he came
here he sent a floating hospital it's
good but if you're asking me about
macron's remarks he made a severe
mistake it was a factual mistake and a
moral
mistake it is Hamas not Israel
preventing the civilians
evacuation Israel is telling them to
leave
while Israel's leadership is Eden that
it's not changing its strategy there are
many voices at home who believe a
ceasefire in Gaza may help bring back
the
hostages so let's come back to Tanya
Kramer in Jerusalem Tanya as we've heard
Israeli media reporting that dozens of
hostages could soon be released under a
possible deal can you give us any
further details there
well basically these are con these were
reports in Israeli media that came up on
Saturday night they're talking about a
possible deal that might be on the table
but nothing is confirmed here it's where
all unsourced reports saying that a deal
could include up to 80 hostages among
them women elderly and the children that
are being held in Gaza they could be
exchanged uh in return for um women uh
Palestinian women prison that are held
in Israeli prison as well as Palestinian
miners that are held in in Israeli
prisons but again nothing has been
confirmed of that sort so far but um you
know hostage negotiators are saying or
sources close to them that they need a
ceasefire for that to move uh those
hostages to get them out of Gaza at
least a short-term uh ceasefire but we
also hearing again in a televised in a
press conference by prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu he said again um that
there would be no ceas fire unless all
the hostages are basically released so
we have to wait and see what's going on
there behind closed doors whether there
is a breakthrough uh Qatar is uh is
working on that as one of the mediators
Egypt so we have to wait and see if
there's a breakthrough in the coming
days and this all taking place as uh on
Saturday we saw protests across Israel
calling for the hostages release what
are these demonstrators asking of the
Israeli
government well I think it's a very
frustrating and very worrying situation
for many family families and the
relatives of uh the hostages they are
coming out in the past weeks they came
out on several locations across Israel
not just reminding the government it's
so important to keep this on the agenda
the government is saying and the Army as
well it's one of their priorities
obviously to bring the hostages back
home but families are worried about the
fact that Israel is pushing ahead with a
ground operation in Gaza and that might
harm the hostages that are being held in
Gaza and they're demanding more action
more information from the government to
bring uh the hostages home Tanya thank
you very much for that that's DW's Tanya
Kramer reporting from
Jerusalem